# Hemingway Technique

Ernest Hemingway famously used this approach when writing. He'd stop
mid-sentence or at a point where he knew exactly what came next, making it much
easier to jump back in the following day without having to figure out where to
start. The idea is that you maintain momentum by always having a clear next step
waiting for you.


As a developer, I've always heard about the productivity hack of leaving
something unfinished to start the next morning, but it never worked for me
because setting up a meaningful task took 10-20 minutes - too long to be
spontaneous, especially when I'd already overstayed at the office to finish
something and didn't want to spend another 20 minutes setting myself up for
tomorrow. 

With Claude Code and MCP tools for JIRA or Linear, I can now sit in bed and
instead of scrolling Reddit or Instagram, I run a custom bedtime agent slash
command where I've already set up my `~/.claude/agents/bedtime.md` to describe
the process of finding something simple that I can start tonight and finish
tomorrow. I describe a feature I want or a problem I'm thinking about, then work
back and forth with Claude in planning mode for about 5 minutes to develop an
implementation plan I like. When I approve the plan, Claude gets to work while I
put my phone on the charger. 

```text
bedtime agent
```

When I wake up, I have a notification from Claude Code "4 files to review, 237
lines of code added". Something nice and small to start my day. Having Claude
Code on my phone is key because previously, to leave something unfinished for
the next day, I had to be in programmer brain and actually make code changes
myself. Now I can do this setup at any point in the evening - the task shrunk
from 20 minutes of focused programming work down to a 5-minute conversational
planning session. Having Claude Code accessible from my phone dramatically
increased the surface area of opportunities when this routine could actually
happen, making it way more likely to become a consistent habit.
